# Decoder Utility Scripts


Welcome to the Decoder Utility Scripts repository! This repository contains various scripts and tools for analyzing and managing software vulnerabilities, component pedigrees, relationship models, and more. Below is an overview of the directory structure and descriptions of the key scripts and files.


## Table of Contents
- [Pedigree Summary Scripts](#pedigree-summary-scripts)
- [Relationship Model Scripts](#relationship-model-scripts)
- [Use Cases](#use-cases)
  - [Customer Escalation](#customer-escalation)
  - [Internal Analysts](#internal-analysts)


## Pedigree Summary Scripts


The `pedigree_summary_scripts` directory contains scripts for generating summaries of component pedigrees.


### Files
- **component_pedigree.sh**
  - Description: A shell script to generate the component pedigree summary.
- **component_pedigree_README.md**
  - Description: A README file providing detailed instructions on how to use the `component_pedigree.sh` script.


## Relationship Model Scripts


The `relationship_model_scripts` directory includes scripts for gathering security data, searching packages, and getting CVE information related to relationship models.


### Files
- **gather_security_data.sh**
  - Description: A shell script to gather security data.
- **get_cve_info.sh**
  - Description: A shell script to retrieve CVE information.
- **search_package.sh**
  - Description: A shell script to search for package information.
- **relationship_model_README.md**
  - Description: A README file providing detailed instructions on how to use the scripts in the `relationship_model_scripts` directory.


## Use Cases


The `use_cases` directory contains specific use case scripts and related files.


### Customer Escalation


#### Files
- **vuln_scan_cert.py**
  - Description: A Python script to scan vulnerabilities based on a provided CSV file and generate an enriched CSV output.
- **vuln_scan_cert.sh**
  - Description: A shell script to perform vulnerability scanning and certification.
- **Vuln Scan Cert Test Data 1 - Resubmitted Python.csv**
  - Description: Test data for the vulnerability scan cert script.


### Internal Analysts


#### Files
- **container_vulnerability_summary.sh**
  - Description: A shell script to summarize container vulnerabilities.


## Virtual Environment


The `venv` directory contains the virtual environment for the repository. To set up the virtual environment, run the following commands:


python -m venv venv
source venv/bin/activate  # On Windows use `venv\Scripts\activate`
pip install -r requirements.txt

## Output Files
The `output` directory contains the results of the various scripts, such as:
- **output - Sheet1.csv**
  - Description: The output file generated by the `vuln_scan_cert.py` script.
## Dependencies
The `requirements.txt` file lists all the Python dependencies needed to run the scripts in this repository. To install the dependencies, run:

pip install -r requirements.txt
```
## How to Use
### Running Python Scripts
To run the `vuln_scan_cert.py` script, use the following command:
```sh
python vuln_scan_cert.py path/to/your/input.csv path/to/your/output.csv
```
### Running Shell Scripts
To run any of the shell scripts, use the following command:
```sh
bash script_name.sh
```
For detailed instructions on each script, refer to the respective README files in the subdirectories.
---
This README provides an overview of the structure and usage of the `decoder_utility_scripts` repository. For more detailed instructions and examples, please refer to the individual README files in each subdirectory.
```
